When we created this array the indexes were assigned automatically by P HP if we vihar dumped the whole
array like this and look at this in a browser we see that the first element of the array has an index
of zero.
The second one has an index of one and the third one has an index of two.
The indexes are created automatically starting from zero.
However it's possible to manually specify the indexes when we create an array to specify an element
index right to the index followed by an equal sign and a greater than sign like this then the value
of the element the index can be any whole number you like.
They don't have to be sequential and you don't have to specify the index for all the elements.
Any that aren't specified will be assigned automatically continuing on from the previous one.
For example let's add some indexes to a couple of elements in our array.
Then when we dump out the every variable in the browser we can see the indexes that we've assigned the
first element as an index of one.
The second has an index of three and as we didn't specify an index with a third element it's continued
from 3 and assigned the index of four.
You can also use a string as an index arrays with string indexes are sometimes referred to as associated.
Erase.
You assign these in the same way but make sure you include the quotes around each string index.
Note that you can only use integers are strings as ARRAY indexes.
You can't use other types.
Let's change the indexes on these elements to strings.
Turning it into an associative array.
In a browser it looks like this.
With each element having a string index instead of a numeric one.
Individual elements in an associative array access.
In the same way for example lets display the second element of the array by adding the index of the
second element like that.
And in the browser this prints out the second element of the array.
Find the link in this video.
Let's tidy this up a little bit in p h.
P You don't need to put every instruction on just one line.
You can put it on several lines.
If it looks cleaner for example let's put each index and each element on one line
like that.
Much easier to read.
You'll see this a lot when you see other people's code.